All right, so now let's have a little bit of fun.
I want to revisit one of our previous applications a bit because now that we know a little more about
time, I want to revise some things.
Let's go back to our big data application.
Someone to jump over there real quick.
All right.
So here's our good old faithful big data application here.
And what I have in mind is to add some more functionality to it.
So let's start off by reminding ourselves of what this data actually looked like in the spreadsheet,
and I'll run through the steps that I took before to do this.
So I'm going to open up a terminal program.
All right.
And here I am in the folder that contains the five million CSV record file here.
I'll do a listing here real quick, and I'm going to go ahead and just regenerate a smaller version
of that file so that I can open it up in a spreadsheet real quick.
And the way I did that before was with the Unix head command.
And then I specified how many records I wanted, and I don't know how many I took before, maybe 100
and one.
Probably I don't know.
It doesn't matter and will do.
And then I have to specify the file that I want to open here, which is a CSP.
And then I'm going to pipe the output of this just the first 101 records into a file called People that
CSP.
All right.
And so I've just created that file, and now I can open that file people CSP.
So here we are with that file open again and I'll zoom in a bit.
So if we take a look at this data, we will see that there are some date fields in here that we didn't
do anything with at the time, right?
So we've got a date of birth and a time of birth.
What else do we have here?
Date of joining.
So we've got a few date and time related fields here, so let's focus on maybe the date of birth and
time of birth.
So a couple of interesting things we could do here.
Jumping back over to the code for a minute.
So currently, we are modeling a person class record really to represent a few of the fields.
From this spreadsheet, but not most of them, right, we left a lot out.
So there's a couple of things that I think we could do here.
A couple of decisions, I guess.
I would like to model the date of birth and time of birth in our person class here, and I can think
of two ways that we might consider doing this, though we could have one field that is simply date of
birth and that would use a a local date time.
And why would it be a local date time, by the way?
Well, I think I'd probably make it a local date time, very likely because I wouldn't have an easy
programmatic way that I can think of right at this moment to determine what time zone these people are
in.
Even though I do have access to their city, I don't have right now at this very moment an easy programmatic
way that I could translate the city and state into a time zone without having to write a bunch more
code that goes in hit some web service someplace in the internet to to get that information, though
that might be a cool exercise for us to do at some point.
But well beyond the scope of what I what I'm inclined to get into right now.
So without knowing the time zone of where these people live, I'm just kind of passing through it to
make sure that I'm not lying to you.
I don't I don't see an easy way to do that with the data that I have right here right now without that
ability.
I think all I can do right now is just model a local date and time.
Right?
So one option would be to pass out these additional two fields here into one field on the person class,
which is a unified date time field, right?
The other approach would be to just let them be separated out.
We could do.
We can probably do, either.
Maybe.
First off, let's just start with two separated out a date and a time because that's what we have in
the spreadsheet and then will.
And then we'll decide if it's worthwhile to combine the two in one fell swoop.
So to do that, let's start off by just adding those two fields.
So I'm just going to add them to the end here, so we will use a local date.
And I don't know, we'll call it birth date and then a local time, and we'll call that birth time and
then we get errors immediately down here in our constructor of in our construction of a person because
we have to specify those two additional fields now.
Now, if you may recall, the way that this was working was that we are splitting each row of this spreadsheet,
which is a string initially into an array of fields.
And so we will need to know the index of the date of birth field in the time of birth field.
And I don't know what those indexes are.
So what I'm inclined to do is come down here to the bottom of this spreadsheet, right click and add
a new row below and come over here to the beginning and then start typing a couple of indexes here zero,
one and two.
And then if I select a couple of these and then grab that little that little dot there, I can have
the spreadsheet.
Count those columns for me.
All right.
And so now if I find if I find those fields.
There they are.
I think those are they.
So the date, birth date is 10 and the birth time is 11.
Let me come up here and just make sure I'm looking at the right thing.
Yeah, 10 and 11.
All right.
So now jumping back over here, so I will put my cursor.
Let's see.
I want to be on the inside.
There we go.
So there's.
Notice what I'm doing here.
I'm trying to find out where can I start typing more stuff and be in the right place?
So I wanted to find where is the matching closing parentheses for this person constructor?
And it is this parentheses right here.
So I want to put my cursor right to the left of that.
And then a comma.
And now I want to grab this birth date field.
So it's from the array.
It's going to be a 10.
Now that's going to be a string, right?
And that's not quite right because we're modeling this as a local date.
And so now you get to learn a new method here.
So the question is, how do we create a local date from an existing string, right?
Well, there's a method for that, of course, and it lives on a local date class and it is called pass.
And we've seen parsing before.
The numeric wrapper classes have a pass method that takes a string and then passes it into whatever
the numerical value and in fact, we're even using it.
And in fact, I thought we were even using it somewhere.
I know at any rate we've seen it before, right?
So we're going to do the same kind of thing here.
Now there are two versions of the pass method for the local date.
There is one that just takes text, and then there's another one that takes two inputs text, comma
and then something called a date time format.
Here's the deal.
This simpler pass method will pass text as long as that text is in a very specific format, and I'll
show you what that format is in just a second here.
So.
So if I go to the local data class real quick and pull that up.
The reason I'm doing it this way, by the way, is because things are running off my screen recorder.
So you won't get to see it unless I pull it up like full screen.
So I'll just do it this way.
All right.
So here's the local local date and we will go to the pass method.
The first one?
And we'll take a look at its Java dock here, so the Java Dock says this will obtain a local day from
a string that's in the format of four digit year, followed by hyphen two digit month hyphen and then
two digit day.
So if we jump back over to our spreadsheet, we will see that our dates are not in that format and therefore
we can't use that.
Point blank, we just we can't use that.
So we're going to need to use the date format or.
So the way we can do that.
Let me jump back over here to our code, so we're going to have to use the version of pass that takes
two inputs.
So the first input will be our string, which is eight 10, followed by a comma and then a date time
formatter.
Now we can create a date time format or, like everything else, with a time formatter.
Got a little too much there?
Sort of pattern.
Now there are a bunch of predefined daytime patterns that we could have considered, but I happen to
know that none of them are going to work for us.
Again, you can actually go look for yourself at the Java Dock for a date for the date time formatter.
And you can take a look at what each of these predefined format patterns do.
But I can tell you now that none of them will work for the dates that we have in the spreadsheet.
And so we will have to create our own.
And so the way that we can do that is to use this of pattern method here, which just takes a string
and then it uses some format characters just kind of like the print statement.
And again, to learn these format characters, you could also go look at the Java Dock.
But I happen to know them already.
So let's look at our spreadsheet here.
So we've got a month, then day, then year.
For those of you who do not live in North America, just know that America tends to format our dates
in a way that you, the rest of the world would consider to be wrong.
And I maybe can't argue with the rest of the world.
It's not the most logical ordering to go in from big to small to bigger again, right?
I might have made more sense to go from small to big to bigger, biggest or something like that, but
we don't do that.
So anyway, month, day and then year?
All right.
So jumping back over here to to specify the month, we will use capital M..
Now, notice that these dates subtly are allowing the numbers to be single digits.
OK.
And that matters.
So to allow for single or double digit month, I will use one m, followed by a forward slash because
that's the separator that we're using here.
And then a single or double digit day, and that will be a d forward slash and then a four digit year.
And so that'll be specified with lowercase y y y y like.
So now if our months or days were consistently two digits wide, then I'd want to do this.
OK, okay.
So specify to MS and two DS.
But if I were to do that here, that would blow up because it would expect that we would have a a pre
pended zero on month like seven, right?
Or days like five.
So it would be zero seven zero five.
But since we are not pretending, we don't want these doubled up letters like this, so just a single
m in a single D, but for wise.
All right.
And so that gives us the passing of our day, and then I'm going to put a comma here and then we will
grab the time.
So that's going to work very similarly now, local time.
Dot Pass.
And so let's look at our times here, so our minute second.
And then AM or PM, there might be a standard form matter for that.
So first off, will specify a whoops a 11.
Calmer.
And now we're going to need another date time for matter.
But now let's go take a quick peek at the time, format or class and see if there is a pre can format
or already defined for us.
I'll pull up the Java doc here.
So what I'm doing now is looking for a time, so this is getting close, except it's not including the
AMPM.
Let's see if we've got one that has the and PM on it.
Who and nope, I'm not seeing one of those.
So it looks like we're going to have to specify that on our own also.
All right.
And so that's fine.
So I'll close this.
So date, time, formatter, thought of pattern.
And so we've got the hour, so that's going to be H.H. Colon.
Minute and now that's a lowercase him.
And by the way, so minute is lowercase.
That's why the month is uppercase m OK, because it's the same date time format or same pattern.
Stuff here.
So they had to differentiate between month versus minute.
All right.
And notice I'm using doubles now because these are all doubles, right?
So these these are presented by zero.
Here.
All right, so our minute second.
And then a space and then the AMPM.
And I believe that is specified by an A..
If I'm not mistaken, but let me just go double check the Java Dock to make sure.
So what I'm doing now is I'm scrolling quickly down to the formatting section here, and this teaches
us how to format what each of the letters actually means.
So I'm going to look for the am pm.
There it is.
Yeah.
So it's a lowercase a ampm of day.
OK.
All right.
Now I have an error here, and I think it's because I didn't close off the yeah, I did not close off
this pass method here.
So let me put A..
There we go.
Just needed another parentheses there and looks like we're good.
Now, I recognize that this might start, this might be looking really difficult to see, so what I'm
going to do is I'm actually going to pull these this local date stuff down onto a new line.
So I'm just putting my cursor right here on local data, and I will hit return once there and I will
do it again here so that you can get a clean, a cleaner look at what I'm doing.
It doesn't affect the the program at all, right?
To have these spaces here, but it does certainly make it easier to read.
All right.
So in theory, we should now be capable of parsing our date and time information.
And now having done that, let's add a method to our person class that will actually calculate their
age.
So to do that now, I will no longer have the empty, curly braces here.
So we will hit enter and we'll just add a new method here.
So I'm thinking, let's start simple first and just add a method that will just return there approximate
age in years.
I say approximate because we will drop off the months and days and all of that, and we'll just grab
the years.
OK.
So let's have a method that will return, I guess, along and we'll call it get age.
And so this method now can simply do the calculation because it will have the birth date, right?
And I guess for now, we'll we won't even need the time, OK, so we'll just deal with the date itself.
So to do that, we can simply use a period, right, not between local date now comma.
Birth date, and then we can grab the years with a get years and then we need to return that.
There we go.
All right.
And now that we've got that.
Tell you what, let's stop capturing this map information here.
And in fact, let me just clean this up a little bit.
So I'm going, I'm selecting this map thing that we were returning.
Plus these two plus these two lines up above that were commented out anyway.
And it's going to delete all of that.
For a moment.
Looks like Anita, uncomment that now.
OK.
And let's see down here.
How about no collecting?
And.
And so down here, we'll do a for each instead, and let me I'll just delete that for you.
We'll make a new cleaner for each.
All right.
So for each.
Let's do a system that out that print f.
And we'll say their last name.
Comma, first name, comma, birth, date, hyphen, age in in years.
Right.
And so we'll put all of that together.
Oh, and I forgot to put this all in a lambda expression, actually, so let me put my cursor back over
here.
So each of the things that's coming out of this now is a person, right?
All right.
So then so I got the p and then the arrow here.
So over here, we'll do that last name.
Comma p dot first.
Oops.
First name comma p dot.
Birth date.
Comma peaked, and now we can call this age this jet age method that we just added.
OK, so notice this we haven't done a whole lot of this kind of thing here where we're creating essentially
a synthetic property, right?
It's a property that we're a calculated property where we're calculating a property with its own getter
method from other properties, though on the class.
And this again, is kind of like some of the power of just, you know, object orientation and things.
All right.
So there's the age that should get printed out now.
And let me comment out this line, 39 down here.
And so I think we're ready to run this the sea we're skipping over the first.
Oh well, hold on a minute.
We want to limit this because we don't want to do this for everything.
So yeah, let's limit this to maybe 200.
In fact, maybe even limit it to 20 to start off with.
Oh, and I know I need to change the path here.
I'm on a different computer from when we started this and my path a little bit different now.
Oh, and as I often do forget, we need a new line character there, otherwise that's not going to be
very easy to see.
All right, let's try that again.
Here we go.
So let's see what this is looking like.
Ruben Pastore 1993 27.
But I got the dates backward and I often make that mistake.
So let's see here.
Yeah, yeah, because we want to start with the earlier date, for the first, for the first parameter
and then the later date for the second parameter.
So that's easy enough.
Let's just grab that.
I will do I will cut that with a Command X and I will select this and then I can drag it right over.
There we go.
And then I can paste that there.
And now let's run that again.
And yeah, there we go.
Eddie Copus is 59 and Carlton Fredrick is 28 and Lamar Chesney is 58 and so on and so forth.
All right, so very cool.
Now that we've got that, we can do all kinds of additional streams stuff with this data, right?
So let's say for grins that we wanted to find all of the people who are older than 60.
Can you think of how to do that?
All right.
So now if I wanted to do that, let's see here so we could come down here and just filter.
P where p dot get age is greater than I forgot what I said, they're 60.
Did I say greater than 60?
Let's pretend like I said that.
All right.
And so let's run that.
All right, so in in the current data set, apparently we don't have any people who are older than 60.
But notice I was limiting this to just 20 people.
Right?
So now if I open that up to maybe 2000 people, let's let's see what we get.
There we go now, we got got a few people.
They all happen to be sixty one, so I guess we don't have any people older than sixty one in this in
this set of two thousand.
All right.
Well, at any rate.
Let's see if we've got any people younger than 25.
Less than twenty five.
And rather than printing them out now, let's just do a count of them.
All right.
And so to do this, we can simply do a count.
Right.
We can simply do a count.
But now we'll have to capture that count.
Of course.
So I will just with my cursor right here at the semicolon, I can do an option Command V. And we'll
grab that.
So here's the variable that it just created for us, and then we'll come down here and.
And we'll just print that out count and let's run it.
All right, well, so there's three hundred and sixty one thousand people under the age of 25.
Let's bring that down to twenty three hundred three thousand people under the age of 23.
How about 22?
None.
Interesting.
All right.
So that's more than enough fun with the dates, and we kind of did a little refresher of some of the
stream's stuff as well.
But that just goes to show that when we open up the world of date parsing and things, then that also
opens up the possibility for a whole lot more things that we can do in terms of querying all of that
data.
Right?
All right.
I've got a few more techniques that I want to share with you real quick here.
So we created this date time format earlier so that we could pass these strings that were representing
dates and times using formats that weren't already known to the Java date, time format or right.
So we were able to specify any arbitrary pattern for dates and times.
Now what if we also wanted to be able to take an internal date time object like a local date or a local
time and print that back out in any arbitrary format?
Well, we can do that as well.
And the cool thing is we can use the same date time format that we've already created to do so.
So I want to show you real quick how we can do that.
And I think maybe the way we'll do it is, we'll just add another method here called something like,
let's see, this will return a string and it'll we'll call it something like get VAB as text.
And so this can return our birth date, but formatted, however, we want it to be as text and possibly
what we might want to do there is just reuse the formatter that we have down here.
So if we wanted to do that, then we should not create another one of these because that would be code
duplication.
And that's a bad idea.
A better thing to do, I think, would be to convert this date time form matter into a field of our
class and then we can reuse it all over the place.
So I've already selected it here, and if I do an option, command f four field.
There we go.
I can then name it something, so I will call it date for matter and hit enter.
And so that just brought that up here as a private static final field of the big data class.
And while we're at it, we might as well do that with the time format as well.
And actually, I guess I'll just select it this way, because that way, I don't have to keep track
of where the parentheses end.
All right.
And so again, Option Command F. And I will call this one time format or sorry, the the words that
I'm typing there were obscured there by a little shortcut visualization there.
But there we go and enter.
OK.
And so then I can come down here to my get date of birth as text method and I can reference the date
formatter dot format.
So it's got this format method, which returns a string it takes as an input, a temporal access.
Or now I haven't been talking about the various interfaces and super classes that these date and time
classes are actually using.
But just know that a temporal access are just essentially means a date or a time.
So I can call the format method and then I can pass in the birthday that we already have as an internal
field of the person class, so birthdate.
There we go.
And if I wanted to, I could go ahead and do the same for the time, but I'll leave that as an exercise
for you.
So then if we want to see these dates, that's a trivial thing to do now, right?
So let's see here.
Currently, we're counting the people.
So let's do this.
Let's limit let's limit the number of people that we're going to have in our stream to something more
reasonable.
For now, I'll just go for 20.
And let's comment out our count, and let's go back to our for each, which is getting us pretty close
to where we actually want to be anyway.
And I'll need to pull this files that line's method off of this line where we're capturing the count
because we're no we're no longer going to be capturing accounts.
I'm just going to comment that out for now.
And let's see.
So we're we were printing last name, first name, birth, date and age.
Yes.
So what we can do here is simply change this this bit right here instead of birth date.
Let's just do the.
Dobbs text.
There we go.
Nice and easy.
And then we also need to comment about this display of the count there.
All right.
Oh yeah.
And I think we don't have any people less than 22 years old, right?
So let's change this number to maybe 30 people under 30.
There they are.
And so now we've got their dates of birth showing up the same way that they are on the spreadsheet.
But we could obviously change that.
We could make those show up in whatever format we wanted to.
And so that's the main point that I wanted to make there.
All right.
Let me pull this down and make a little bit of room.
And while we're at it, let me also show you one more technique.
Now, I'm not going to go all the way here because I'm using a record here and because I'm using a record,
Java is creating the constructor for us.
But I want to show you just what it could look like if we wanted to combine the birth date and the birth
time.
It should be pretty obvious at this point.
But let's just do that.
So we will have another method here.
I don't know.
We'll call this one get complete VAB.
And this will return a local date time.
And so we will return will create a local date time of.
And then we'll simply pass in the birth date and the birth time.
And it's as easy as that to get a complete date and time combined together as we already saw on the
other class anyway.
So if we weren't using a record here and we were just using a regular class, there's a good chance
that what I might have done in that case was to take this bit of code here and put it in the constructor
itself, so the constructor would have been passed in the local.
So the constructor might have been passed a local date and a local time.
And then in the implementation of that constructor, I might have taken those two bits and saved the
date and the time as one field internally on the class using this local day time, right?
Why bother having two fields when you can just do it with one?
So that's an option that you could consider doing as well.
And so I think that's all I want to show you back in this class.